add(refcont): IoT Hub CA change MTA-3016 (#1592)
scaleway/docs-content: managed-services/iot-hub/reference-content/certificate.mdx

---
meta:
  title: Certificate Authority
  description: This page provides important information about the Scaleway IoT Hub Certificate Authority.
content:
  h1: Certificate Authority
  paragraph: This page provides important information about the Scaleway IoT Hub Certificate Authority.
dates:
  validation: 2023-04-26
  posted: 2023-04-26
categories:
  - managed-services
tags: iot iot-hub ca certificate authority
---

As a security measure, Scaleway IoT Hub was designed with a mutual Transport Layer Security (TLS) as the default authentication protocol. This means each device needs both a certificate and key pair to connect to IoT Hub.

Using a trusted Certificate Authority (CA) to issue digital certificates is essential to guarantee a secure Transport Layer Security (TLS) connection between a device and the IoT Hub. A digital certificate contains important information about the server's identify that can help verify its authenticity, then allowing the device to use it to establish a secure connection with the server.

However, the current Certificate Authority of the IoT Hub server endpoint is set to expire **in February 2024**.

> The information provided on this page explain what the migration entails and how to successfully transition to the new CA.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The information provided on this page explains what the migration entails and how to successfully transition to the new CA.
```

</Message>

The CA is a `.pem` bundle that currently contains both the soon-to-be expired and new CA. This is part of our strategy to make the transition seamless to you.

# Planning the migration

As of now, a new IoT Hub endpoint is available: `migration.iot.fr-par-scw.cloud`. It acts exactly like `iot.fr-par-scw.cloud`, which is the endpoint Scaleway users have habitually been provided with. Starting now, you can connect to this new endpoint. The only difference is that it will identify itself with the new part of the certificate bundle.

On **26 September 2023**, the old certificate for the `iot.fr-par-scw.cloud` endpoint will be changed for one signed by the new CA.

On **30 January 2024**, the migration endpoint will be deactivated. You will only be able to connect to the main `iot.fr-par-scw.cloud` endpoint.

Two options are available to you, depending on what your device allows.

## Your device can use a CA bundle 

1. Log into the [Scaleway console](https://console.scaleway.com)

> 2. **Click IoT Hub on the side menu.** The IoT Hub creation page displays.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Click **IoT Hub** on the side menu. The IoT Hub creation page displays.
```

> 3. **Click one of your hub's name.**. You are redirected to the Overview section of your hub.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Click one of your hub's name. You are redirected to the **Overview** section of your hub.
```

> 4. **Click the Networks tab**. Find the network with the `iot.fr-par.scw.cloud` endpoint.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Click the **Networks** tab. Find the network with the `iot.fr-par.scw.cloud` endpoint.
```

> 5. **Click the <Icon name="[download]"/> Download icon next to the endpoint to download the CA.** The downloaded certificate is signed by both the old and new Certificate Authority.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Click the <Icon name="[download]"/> **Download** icon next to the endpoint to download the CA. The downloaded certificate is signed by both the old and new Certificate Authority.
```

> 6. **Try connecting to the dedicated migration endpoint** using the newly downloaded CA. If it succeeds, your device supports the use of a Certificate Authority bundle.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Connect to the dedicated migration endpoint using the newly downloaded CA. If it succeeds, your device supports the use of a Certificate Authority bundle.
```

---
meta:

>   title: Certificate Authority update

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  title: Updating your Endpoint's Certificate Authority 
```
je propose ça, mais c'est p-e pas parfait

  description: This page provides important information about the Scaleway IoT Hub Certificate Authority.
content:
  h1: Certificate Authority update
  paragraph: This page provides important information about the Scaleway IoT Hub Certificate Authority.
dates:
  validation: 2023-04-27
  posted: 2023-04-27
categories:
  - managed-services
tags: iot iot-hub ca certificate authority update
---

> As a security measure, Scaleway IoT Hub was designed with a mutual Transport Layer Security (TLS) as the default authentication protocol. This means each device needs both a certificate and key pair to connect to IoT Hub.

Reviewer 3: > This means each device needs both a certificate and key pair to connect to IoT Hub.

This is not the important part here, let's concentrate on the certificate concerned by this migration ;)
So something like:

> This means that each device need to verify the authenticity of the IoT Hub certificate.

Then the next paragraph explains the CA, so this should be enough. ;)

Using a trusted Certificate Authority (CA) to issue digital certificates is essential to guarantee a secure Transport Layer Security (TLS) connection between a device and the IoT Hub. A digital certificate contains important information about the server's identify that can help verify its authenticity, then allowing the device to use it to establish a secure connection with the server.

However, the current Certificate Authority of the IoT Hub server endpoint is set to expire **in February 2024**.

The information provided on this page explains what the migration entails and how to successfully transition to the new CA.

<Message type="note">

>   It is possible to replace the Scaleway-generated default certificate with either a self-generated or third-party certificate. If your devices do not use TLS, the information contained within this page will not pertain to you.

Reviewer 3: The first sentence is not useful (and can be misleading) as we are not talking about the same certificate at all.
It's probably simpler to just keep the last part in this note:
> If your devices do not use TLS, the information contained within this page will not pertain to you.

>   It is possible to replace the Scaleway-generated default certificate with either a self-generated or third-party certificate. If this applies to you and your devices do not use TLS, the information contained within this page will not pertain to you.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  It is possible to replace the Scaleway-generated default certificate with either a self-generated or third-party certificate. If your devices do not use TLS, the information contained within this page will not pertain to you.
```

</Message>

> The CA is a `.pem` bundle that currently contains both the soon-to-be expired and new CA. This is part of our strategy to make the transition seamless to you.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The CA used in the migration is a `.pem` bundle that currently contains both the soon-to-be expired and new CA. This allows for a  seamless transition.
```

# Planning the migration

> The reason for the update is to better your IoT Hub experience by providing you with a new CA that will be valid for 10 years. That way, you devices won't need to be regularly updated. Additionally, the key used for the current CA has been changed from an RSA4096 to an ECDSA key with a NIST P-384 Curve. The new ECDSA algorithm uses shorter key lenghts than RSA for much stronger security, which is ideal embedded devices.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The new CA will now be valid for 10 years. This way, your devices will not need to be regularly updated. Additionally, the key used for the current CA has been changed from an RSA4096 to an ECDSA key with a NIST P-384 Curve. The new ECDSA algorithm uses shorter key lengths than RSA for stronger security, which is ideal for embedded devices.
```

> To implement these changes, a new IoT Hub endpoint has been made available: `migration.iot.fr-par-scw.cloud`. It acts exactly like `iot.fr-par-scw.cloud`, which is the endpoint Scaleway users have habitually been provided with. Starting February 2024, you can connect to this new, transitory endpoint.

Reviewer 3: First there are typos in domain name it's not fr-par dash scw.cloud but fr-par DOT scw.cloud

This should mention that migration.iot.fr-par.scw.cloud uses a certificate signed with the new CA while iot.fr-par.scw.cloud still use the current CA.

The date is wrong as it's already available: 2023

> To implement those changes, a new IoT Hub endpoint has been made available: `migration.iot.fr-par-scw.cloud`. It acts exactly like `iot.fr-par-scw.cloud`, which is the endpoint Scaleway users have habitually been provided with. Starting now, you can connect to this new, transitory endpoint.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To implement these changes, a new IoT Hub endpoint has been made available: `migration.iot.fr-par-scw.cloud`. It acts exactly like `iot.fr-par-scw.cloud`, which is the endpoint Scaleway users have habitually been provided with. Starting February 2024, you can connect to this new, transitory endpoint.
```

> On **26 September 2023**, the old certificate for the `iot.fr-par-scw.cloud` endpoint will be changed for one signed by the new CA.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
On **September 26 2023**, the old certificate for the `iot.fr-par-scw.cloud` endpoint will be changed for one signed by the new CA.
```

Author: Based myself on this https://scaleway.slack.com/archives/C01E07EB3LL/p1671207218265579, isn't it the international format used at SCW?

> On **30 January 2024**, the migration endpoint will be deactivated. You will only be able to connect to the main `iot.fr-par-scw.cloud` endpoint.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
On **January 30 2024**, the migration endpoint will be deactivated. You will only be able to connect to the main `iot.fr-par-scw.cloud` endpoint.
```

Taking this timeline into account and depending on what your device allows, two options are available to you.

> ## Your device can use a CA bundle 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Your device can use a CA bundle 
```

> The first option is to use a CA bundle. With that option, the transition will be smoother because no further action will be required from you once you are done configuring it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The first option is to use a CA bundle. In this case, the transition will be smoother because no further action will be required from you once you are done configuring it.
```

1. Log into the [Scaleway console](https://console.scaleway.com)
2. Click **IoT Hub** on the side menu. The IoT Hub creation page displays.

> 3. Click one of your hub's name. You are redirected to the **Overview** section of your hub.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Click the name of your hub. You are redirected to the **Overview** section of your hub.
```

4. Click the **Networks** tab. Find the network with the `iot.fr-par.scw.cloud` endpoint.

> 5. Click the <Icon name="download"/> **Download** icon next to the endpoint to download the CA. The downloaded certificate is a bundle signed by both the old and new Certificate Authority.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
5. Click <Icon name="download"/> next to the endpoint to download the CA. The downloaded certificate is a bundle signed by both the old and new Certificate Authority.
```

> 6. Connect to the dedicated migration endpoint using the newly downloaded CA. If it succeeds, your device supports the use of a Certificate Authority bundle.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
6. Connect to the dedicated migration endpoint using the newly downloaded CA. 
```

7. Connect back to the main endpoint using the CA bundle.

## Your device can only use a single CA

> Most devices should support a CA bundle, but if such is not the case for yours, you can try this second option.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Most devices support CA bundles, but if this is not the case for your device, you can try this second option.
```

1. Configure your device to use both the new CA and migration endpoint. 

> 2. Once the main endpoint is updated on **26 September 2023**, revert back to it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Once the main endpoint is updated on **September 26 2023**, revert back to it.
```

<Message type="important">

>   Remember that past **30 January 2024**, the migration endpoint will be deactivated and you will no longer be able to connect to it. Try to make the switch ahead of time.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  Remember that past **January 30 2024**, the migration endpoint will be deactivated and you will no longer be able to connect to it. Try to make the switch ahead of time.
```
